{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
start with client\par
Well typically we are gonna meet with the client adn get an idea of what the project is and what they think they want.  And i say think because often the client has a vision of what they want the solution to be and typically they have no idea. So we try to meet with them try to figure out what their budget is, their expectations if they have delivery times, various things like that.\par
\par
challenges\par
A lot of its really trust in the process and integrating with their team.  Typically if they are coming to us as an agency that means that they cant finish this internally, and so a lot of the times we meet with their internal teams a big question is well we can do this?  Why do we need you to do this? And so we have to build that trust and basically overcome some of the politics of the company just due to the various personalities that are there.\par
\par
scope\par
Thats the major responsibility of the project manager or the producer, but it is of course key that the designer or the UX person is keenley aware of what their goal is and what their scope of work is. And so if they believe that the scope of work has gone outside of what they are supposed to do, then they will alert the project manager or the producer and then basically will do a change order, and its one of the biggest things we like to do is to do that as early as possible so they get into the mode of making changes.  And that kind of concept of always bring things early is so important because a lot of times when something bad happens we think i dont wanna tell, but its always best to get that out as early as possible so that progress can be pushed forward.\par
\par
cost estimate\par
We use user stories and a user story is a task that can be done in several hours for a developer or designer.  And then we break them up into epics which involve larger things that would involve making for example a back end system thats an admin system so that would be considered an epic.  The pieces would be broken into things such as i need a log in, i need to be able to administer new users, various aspects of the application.  We break these epics down into user stories.  We take those user stories and the developers will estimate times for their components that they will require to build and support that.  We will take that price together, we'll add 25 percent for QA, and then 20 percent for project management and a producer.  We kind of throw that price together and then look at it, then ask ok do we really want this job or do we wanna maximize profits? We will either lower or raise the price depending on how we feel about that and the client.  and then depending on the client, big businesses will have a better idea of what it takes to do a project, so we can usually charge more and be able to actually do the whole process.  As compared to a company that isn't as familiar with the process, where they will end up just saying oh price is the most important so they cut out steps, such as useabliity studies or you may not do various things that you would do with a larger client with a better budget.  We almost always try to get from the client what the budget is so we can have a good idea of what to shoot for.\par
\par
good communication\par
It comes back down to slack, we have slack teams that are set up according to projects taht are set up under project managers or producers that runs the team.  When i work on projects sometimes ill have 10 projects that are going on at various stages and so ill be a part of lots of different teams.  Whereas developers will be a part of one or two teams where communication usually stays within those teams.\par
\par
team resources\par
An agency business is the ladder which the developers and various people  cycle in and out of projects.  Typically with UX designers they will cycle out and maybe do mid stream.  And then you have teseters that come in at various stages, they will initially come in for kick off but wont be needed until mid stream of the application development.  And then developers will typically be on the project from one end to the other.  With designers they will usually cycle in just enough to get their portion done and then they will cycle out and work on other projects.\par
\par
tracking progress\par
We run an agile methodology.  I dont believe its truly just that.  Maybe really an agile waterfall in reality.  But we have stand up meetings in scrum pattern, where you get up daily in from of your work group or team you tell everyone whats happening, and what you will be working on this week or that day, and if anything is inhibiting you or stoppping you, the project manager is in charge of keeping track of whats going on and keeping the project on track.\par
\par
hand-off\par
Well obviously thats how we get paid.  The last little handoff, so we really wanna make sure we get sign off from the client, as well as meet with their teams, the teams that will actually take over the project and continue on with it, and we make sure we are getting all the things that need to be taken care of, all the requirements and things like that.\par
\par
fixes\par
We have used everything, such as trello or jira. it depends on who we are working with.  recently we did a project where they were on jira, and we would basically VPN into their system and then use jira there and then work with their teams on development, ect.\par
\par
work effectively with clients\par
The big thing about working with clients is you have to responsive even if you dont have the answer.  The bset thing you can do is if you get an email even if you dont have an answer you get back to them saying i dont have an answer right now, ill have to get back to you and give them a time or date.  When you can do that with your client, its really useful.  Its really a weird experience being here hearing from students saying professors never get back to them by email, which is crazy cause i am just connected by the hip with email.  And when you are out in the business world, the minute you stop communicating with your client, thats the minute they think maybe we shouldn't work with these guys. Ultimately in any orginization you have to have very good communication and the client is where you are making your money.  Jst like in college its the students.  And so that kind of communication has to be really responsive and quick.\par
\par
assets\par
We have internal servers which have an array that keep assets there.  With developers we use get repositories.  And depending on the client the client will have different services they keep assets on.  We also use cloud services where we keep everything backed up on a cloud.\par
\par
quality work\par
We have a QA team that reviews things.  We also have reviews that happen internally in different groups.  So UX will review different things as we work on them, and before we send them out to the client we are always double checking. Developers have a code review that they do with other team members.  The CTO will review things.  So basically poeople are double checking things.  You never wanna send out stuff without double checking it first.\par
\par
lessons learned\par
We always try to have what we call post mortum, where we actually talk about how the project went.  We talk about what are the successes, what are the failures, what can we learn from this project.  Invariably probably the hardest part of this is getting the information and learning from it, because we almost invariably do the same thing over and over again and make similar mistakes and so keeping institutional memory is kind of a hard task in any business.  I look at the agency im at now, me and the founder (my older business partner) have been both together there for 12 years.  I think the next oldest person has been there for maybe 5 years. So there is a big gap of literally no other people that have been there with the institutional memory.  So keeping that and pushing htat forward is alwayas a hard task in any institution.\par
\par
recent project\par
Typical projects would be a 3 month term time. Larger projects would be 6 months to a year.  Extremely large projects run for several years.  But that is not typical for a business.  I can say i can only think of 2 projects that went longer than a year, and they were multimillion dollar projects.\par
\par
background\par
I have run and been a part of companies, and managed companies that are called design agencies.  We have done project management, software development, projects of all kinds.  The agency im at currently, I work part time there when i have time, and i am a user experience designer.  And in the past i have run projects, everything from web design projects to applications such as apps and ios.  I have close to 28 years of experience in this business. in the agency business close to 17 years i think. I have worked on projects that were small projects, to a project that was a 3 million project that took about 7 years to do. we supported it for up to 7 years but it took about 2 years to develop the project.  That was bascially a web app, mainly flash and flex development.  We had a team as big as maybe 15 developers, 2 or 3 designers, and a couple UX designers. Thats kinda my background.\par
}
 